Docs11444/azure reorg (#32186)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/logs/guide/azure-automated-log-forwarding.md

**All sites**: Automated log forwarding is available to use on all [Datadog sites][4].

## How to choose between automated and manual setup

Choose the manual setup method if you want to:
   - apply custom tags to your resources

Use the automated setup method if you want to:
   - automate deployment through the Azure portal
   - manage your infrastructure through declarative templates
   - centrally control access, tags, and billing
   - redeploy your resources in the correct order and in a consistent way
   - save costs by using a storage account rather than an event hub

> Add that automated setup method 

Reviewer: This line seems lost

1. Review the finalized deployment details.
2. Click **Create**.

## Architecture

### Services used

1. [Azure Function][15] apps are used to discover resources in your Azure subscriptions, scale log forwarders, and configure diagnostic settings on the detected resources. 
2. [Azure Container Apps][8] are used to collect resource logs generated by diagnostic settings, track which logs have been processed already, and submit them to Datadog.

> 3. [Azure Storage Accounts][9] are used to store logs generated by your resources, as well as a small cache of metadata such as subscription IDs, resource IDs, and regions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Azure Function][15] apps are used to discover resources in your Azure subscriptions, scale log forwarders, and configure diagnostic settings on the detected resources. 
- [Azure Container Apps][8] are used to collect resource logs generated by diagnostic settings, track which logs have been processed already, and submit them to Datadog.
- [Azure Storage Accounts][9] are used to store logs generated by your resources, as well as a small cache of metadata such as subscription IDs, resource IDs, and regions.
```

Since there's no hierarchy to this list, it should be unordered

### High-level architecture

> {{<img src="/logs/guide/azure_automated_logs_architecture/high_level_architecture_06-13-2025.png" alt="A high-level representation of the automated log forwarding setup" style="width:100%">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<img src="/logs/guide/azure_automated_logs_architecture/high_level_architecture_06-13-2025.png" alt="Architecture diagram showing three main components of Azure automated log forwarding: Control Plane and Log Forwarder (deployed by Datadog to customer environment) connecting to Azure Resources" style="width:100%">}}
```

- Automatic configuration of diagnostic settings on discovered resources to flow logs into a storage account that the log forwarders are tracking.
- Scaling of log forwarders in regions where your resources are located, enabling them to match log volume dynamically.

#### Log forwarders 

Log forwarders consist of an Azure Container Apps job and storage account for logs. They are deployed by the control plane in each subscription you select for log forwarding. The number of log forwarders deployed per subscription scales according to the volume of logs generated by your resources. Log forwarders perform the following tasks:
- Temporarily store logs generated from your resources' diagnostic settings in a storage account.
- Process the stored logs and forward them to Datadog. 
   
In Azure, a resource's diagnostic settings can only target storage accounts within the same region. As such, the forwarders are spun up in each region where resources with diagnostic settings exist.

See Azure's [Diagnostic settings in Azure Monitor][13] page for more information.

### Detailed architecture

> {{<img src="/logs/guide/azure_automated_logs_architecture/detailed_architecture.png" alt="A detailed representation of the automated log forwarding setup" style="width:100%">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<img src="/logs/guide/azure_automated_logs_architecture/detailed_architecture.png" alt="Workflow diagram showing Azure automated log forwarding: Control Plane discovers resources and scales log forwarders across regions, configures diagnostic settings to send logs to storage accounts, then Container Apps check for and forward new logs to Datadog Log Management." style="width:100%">}}
```
